Install PHP + Nginx + MySQL on MacOS
====================================

*  [Requirements](#requirements)
*  [Homebrew](#homebrew)
*  [PHP-FPM](#php-fpm)
*  [MySQL](#mysql)
*  [Nginx](#nginx)
*  [More configurations](#more-configurations)
*  [Services control](#services-control)
*  [Update](#update)
*  [More commands](#more-commands)

## Requirements

* OS X 10.10 or higher & An Intel CPU
* Command Line Tools (CLT) for Xcode: `xcode-select --install`
* A Bourne-compatible shell for installation (e.g. bash or zsh)

## Homebrew

**Homebrew** - is a package manager for macOS like `apt` for Debian. To install Homebrew run this command in the terminal:  

$ /usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"

Run `brew doctor` and fix all the warnings (outdated Xcode/CLT and unbrewed dylibs are very likely to cause problems) if they will be.

If you already had Homebrew installed, update the existing Homebrew installation as well as the installed packages:

$ brew update && brew upgrade

[back to topics][0]


## PHP-FPM

```
 brew install php71 --without-apache --with-fpm
 # brew install php71 --with-fpm --without-apache; php -v; php-fpm -v
 # brew install php71 --without-apache --with-fpm --with-mysql
```

Update the `$PATH` environment variable, if you want to use the PHP CLI:

```
 echo 'export PATH="/usr/local/sbin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bash_profile && . ~/.bash_profile
```

To setup auto start create a directory for the LaunchAgents and add a symlink for the start/stop service:

```
 mkdir -p ~/Library/LaunchAgents &&
 ln -sfv /usr/local/opt/php\@7.1/homebrew.mxcl.php\@7.1.plist ~/Library/LaunchAgents/
```

Now you could launch php-fpm:

$ launchctl load -w ~/Library/LaunchAgents/homebrew.mxcl.php\@7.1.plist

[back to topics][0]


## MySQL: TODO

To install MySQL run this command:

$ brew install mysql

To setup auto start add a symlink for the start/stop service:

$ ln -sfv /usr/local/opt/mysql/*.plist ~/Library/LaunchAgents

Run the MySQL-server:

$ launchctl load ~/Library/LaunchAgents/homebrew.mxcl.mysql.plist

To secure your MySQL server you should execute the provided `secure_mysql_installation` binary to change the root password:

$ mysql_secure_installation

> Enter current password for root (enter for none):

Press `Enter` since you don't have one set.

> Change the root password? [Y/n]

It's up to you ;)

> Remove anonymous users? [Y/n]

They are not necessary, so press `Enter`.

> Disallow root login remotely? [Y/n]  

`Enter` — No need to log in as root from any other IP than 127.0.0.1.

> Remove test database and access to it? [Y/n]

`Enter` — You don't need the testing tables.

> Reload privilege tables now? [Y/n]

`Enter` — Reload the privilege tables to ensure all of the changes made so far will take effect immediately.

When you done, test mysql:

$ mysql -u root -p

> Enter you password

[back to topics][0]


## Nginx  

To install Nginx run this command:

```
 brew install nginx
```

To setup auto start Nginx process as root at port 80:

```
 sudo cp -v /usr/local/opt/nginx/*.plist /Library/LaunchDaemons/
 sudo chown root:wheel /Library/LaunchDaemons/homebrew.mxcl.nginx.plist
 # sudo chown root /Library/LaunchDaemons/homebrew.mxcl.nginx.plist
 # sudo chgrp wheel /Library/LaunchDaemons/homebrew.mxcl.nginx.plist
```



Why `sudo`? Because only the root user is allowed to open ports which are < 1024.  

Launch the server and test connection:

```
 sudo launchctl load /Library/LaunchDaemons/homebrew.mxcl.nginx.plist
 # brew services start nginx
```

> curl -IL http://127.0.0.1:8080

Next you need to create few folders, which are necessary for the nginx configuration:

```
 mkdir -p /usr/local/etc/nginx/logs            &&
 mkdir -p /usr/local/etc/nginx/sites-available &&
 mkdir -p /usr/local/etc/nginx/sites-enabled   &&
 mkdir -p /usr/local/etc/nginx/conf.d
```

There are two ways to store your projects. First is to store them inside separate directory in `home` directory. The second one is to store you projects in `/var/www/` directory. I choose the first way, but it's up to you.

```
 sudo mkdir -p ~/www      &&
 sudo chown :staff ~/www  &&
 sudo chmod 775 ~/www
 # cat /usr/local/Cellar/nginx/1.15.1/html/index.html
```

Replace the default `nginx.conf` with my custom config from GitHub-DevOps:  

```
 sudo mv /usr/local/etc/nginx/nginx.conf ~/Downloads/DELETE/  &&
 cp ~/Downloads/devops/_ubuntu/etc/nginx/nginx-macos.conf /usr/local/etc/nginx &&
 mv /usr/local/etc/nginx/nginx-macos.conf /usr/local/etc/nginx/nginx.conf
``` 

Also download my custom PHP-FPM config:

$ curl -L https://gist.githubusercontent.com/php-fpm -o /usr/local/etc/nginx/conf.d/php-fpm

And the last step is to setup virtual host.

You could do it by your self, or you could download my custom virtual host config and setup it:

```
 cp ~/Downloads/devops/_ubuntu/etc/nginx/sites-available/domain-macos.conf /usr/local/etc/nginx/sites-available/ &&
 ln -sfv /usr/local/etc/nginx/sites-available/domain-macos.conf /usr/local/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/  &&
 echo "Hello NGNIX" >> ~/www/index.html
```

But don't forget to change the path to the root directory of your host and also to add `index.html` to the root.

After finishing you should restart nginx:

$ sudo launchctl load /Library/LaunchDaemons/homebrew.mxcl.nginx.plist

[back to topics][0]


## Services Control

```
 cat ~/Downloads/devops/_ubuntu/.bash_profile >> ~/.bash_aliases       &&
 echo "source ~/.bash_aliases" >> ~/.bash_profile && . ~/.bash_profile
```

All aliases you could find in [More commands](#more-commands) section.

[back to topics][0]

  

## Update

To update PHP version in future try this commands:

$ brew remove php71

$ brew install php7.X --without-apache --with-mysql --with-fpm

$ rm ~/Library/LaunchAgents/homebrew.mxcl.php\@7.1.plist

$ ln -sfv /usr/local/opt/php7X/homebrew.mxcl.php7X.plist ~/Library/LaunchAgents/

And of course update your alias list:

$ sudo nano ~/.bash_aliases

...

alias php-fpm.start="launchctl load -w ~/Library/LaunchAgents/homebrew.mxcl.php7X.plist"

alias php-fpm.stop="launchctl unload -w ~/Library/LaunchAgents/homebrew.mxcl.php7X.plist"

...

[back to topics][0]

  

## More commands

*  `brew install [package]` -

*  `brew list` - Show the list of all installed packages

*  `brew search [search term]` - List the possible packages that you can install

*  `brew info [package]` - Display some basic information about the package

*  `brew remove [package]` - Remove package

*  `brew update` - Self-update

*  `brew upgrade [package]` - Update package

*  `brew doctor` - Self-diagnose

*  `brew tap [repo]` - Add new Brew repository

*  `brew help` - List Brew commands

*  `nginx.start` - Start Nginx service

*  `nginx.stop` - Stop Nginx service

*  `nginx.restart` - Restart Nginx service

*  `php-fpm.start` - Start PHP-FPM service

*  `php-fpm.stop` - Stop PHP-FPM service

*  `php-fpm.restart` - Restart PHP-FPM service

*  `mysql.start` - Start MySQL server

*  `mysql.stop` - Stop MySQL server

*  `mysql.restart` - Retstart MySQL server

[back to topics][0]